# Remix Engineering Tutorial Intro

### What is remix?

> Remix is a full stack web framework that lets you focus on the user interface and work back through web fundamentals to deliver a fast, slick, and resilient user experience. People are gonna love using your stuff  
> -- [Remix landing page](https://remix.run/)

But really, what is it? Remember when web development was about making a PHP
page that would be generated by the server when a user requested `/my/php/page.php`?
Remember when you updated your page and data by submitting forms instead of orchestrating
a fetch call to update the server state and local state? Remember when we used to
know how the browser worked, and trusted that instead of coding it ourselves?

Well, it is kind of like that, but remixed.

> remix: a variant of an original recording (as of a song) made by rearranging
> or adding to the original  
> -- https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/remix

So we are just going to do that old style web development, but in the new, cool
javascript sort of way.

### What is this tutorial?

This tutorial will help you to get a fundamental understanding of the principles
of Remix. Each lecture has some notes to give a basic understanding of the concept,
as well an exercise to implement it. Finally, you can look in the `answer` directory
of the lesson to see the final product.

This is broken into "Basic" and "Advanced" patterns. Probably a misnomer as the
"Advanced" concepts are not really more advanced. It is really a question of time.
You can complete the "Basic" part and have a solid understanding of Remix, leaving
the "Advanced" stuff to give a little more polish to your app.

### Caveats

- I am only 4 weeks into this Remix thing, so there is still a wealth of information
  I don't have about it.
- This tutorial isn't about React, css, or database setup. So a lot of that boiler
  plate is already taken care of. If you find that are writing a lot of React, spending
  a lot of time styling your components, or looking up commands from the Prisma docs,
  you are probably doing more than is necessary.
- By the previous caveat, the form components are already created. This was a hard
  choice because a lot of Remix is using forms correctly. Ultimately I decided that
  because of time, I would just have the forms already created in components.
- I built this tutorial on my weekends in my free time, which means it has not been
  thoroughly tested and I recognize there could bugs, typos, and gaps in the sequence and development.

#### Excited?

Me too, so let's get started.

## Credits

This app/tutorial is heavily based on the [Remix Jokes App](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/tutorials/jokes).
A lot of the code (especially `app/utils/users.server.ts`) and concepts are liberally
taken from that tutorial and applied to an app that is relevant to our need. Thanks guys!
